[Applause]
now there's three different types of
entries in the holding pattern direct
parallel and teardrop and we're going to
talk about them in detail the type of
entry you make is actually based on
where the tail of the aircraft is
located when it passes over the holding
fix your heading will affect the type of
entry that you make but when you're
trying to figure out particularly on the
test what kind of entry to make in a
holding pattern forget about the heading
of the aircraft to begin with and work
just with a holding pattern because the
easiest way to do it is to take that
holding pattern and divide it up into
the three different types of entries and
when you're done dividing it up then
worry about where the airplane is coming
from and how the hitting is going to
affect the entry so let's divide up this
holding pattern and the way you want to
do it is grab your pencil just like my
pencil only mine may be a little bit
bigger and more massive than yours take
your pencil and put it down on the
radial that forms the inbound leg put
the point of your pencil on the fix and
pretend like it's hinged there and the
pencil can swing up or swing down now
you're going to swing the tail of your
pencil into the holding pattern airspace
if the holding patterns on top of the
line like it is here we're going to
swing the tail of the pencil up if this
holding pattern happened to be below the
line then we would swing the tail of the
pencil down since this holding pattern
however is above the line we're going to
swing the tail of the pencil up how far
up 70 degrees into the holding pattern
airspace now we started out on 90
degrees and we swung the tail of that
pencil 70 degrees counterclockwise into
the holding pattern airspace so where
did it end up yet ended up on 20 degrees
what do we do next
we take that pencil and we slide it out
through the other side of the fix the
reciprocal of 20 degrees is 200 degrees
and what we have done is we've used our
pencil to create a diagonal dividing
line through that holding pattern on the
side of
that diagonal line where the inbound leg
and most of the holding pattern is
that's going to be the area for a direct
entry now the other side of that
diagonal line we split into two parts by
extending this inbound leg on out
through the other side of the fix the
reciprocal of 90 degrees is 270 degrees
and we now have a medium-sized area and
a tiny area on the other side the
medium-sized area is the area for a
parallel entry and the tiny area is the
area for a teardrop entry
so from 278 clockwise around 220 degrees
is a parallel entry for this holding
pattern from 200 degrees clockwise
around a 270 the tiny area on this
holding pattern is the area for a
teardrop entry